Iau vmware image #25125 (#3316)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/installation-and-upgrade/pages/container-deployment/suma/server-deployment-vmdk-suma.adoc

. Add an additional [systemitem]``Hard Disk 2`` of 500 GB (or more).

. Configure RAM and number of CPUs (at least 16 GB RAM and 4 CPUs).

. Set the network adapter as required.

. Power on the VM, and follow firstboot dialogs.

[[minimal.susemgr.prep]]
== Preparing Virtual Machine for {productname}

Before starting obtain your SUSE Manager Registration Code from SUSE Customer Center - https://scc.suse.com.

// FIXME
// Here we probably want to use sl-micro and thus transactional-update
// See server-deployment-vm-suma, section "Register {sl-micro} and
// {productname} {productnumber} Server

[[proc.minimal.susemgr.prep]]
.Procedure: Preparing for {productname} run

. Log in as `root`.

. Register {productname} with SCC.
  For example, replace `<productnumber>` with `{productnumber}` and `<architecture>` with `x86_64`:
+

----
SUSEConnect -e <EMAIL_ADDRESS> -r <SUSE_MANAGER_CODE> \
  -p SUSE-Manager-Server/<productnumber>/<architecture>
----

. Validate the authorized extensions by running the list extensions command:
+

----
SUSEConnect --list-extensions
----

. Add {productname} repositories:
+

----

> SUSEConnect -p sle-module-basesystem/15.4/x86_64

Reviewer: This is not correct for 5.0, we don't have 15.4 we have sle micro 5.5 as host.

Author: copied from VM chapter.

[NOTE]
====
For more information on preparing raw images see:

* link:https://documentation.suse.com/en-us/sle-micro/5.5/single-html/SLE-Micro-deployment/#sec-raw-preparation[]
* link:https://documentation.suse.com/en-us/sle-micro/5.5/single-html/SLE-Micro-deployment/#cha-images-procedure[]

For additional information on the self install images see:

* link:https://documentation.suse.com/en-us/sle-micro/5.5/single-html/SLE-Micro-deployment/#cha-selfinstal-procedure[]
====

.Available Server Images
[cols="3, 3", options="header"]
|===
| Architecture | Image Format

| aarch64| qcow2, vmdk

| x86_64  | qcow2, vmdk, raw, Self Installer

| ppc64le | raw, Self Installer

| s390x * | qcow2, raw
|===

__* Two storage options are available for s390x: CDL DASD and FBA.__

// FIXME: we probably do not need this section

[[sumavm.ignition]]
== {productname} basic configuration using [systemitem]``Ignition``

[IMPORTANT]
====
{productname} image does not set up [systemitem]``root`` or any other user account.
User or [systemitem]``root`` authentications need to be set up during first boot.
This can be done using [systemitem]``Ignition`` or [systemitem]``Cloud-Init`` methods.

> ====

Reviewer 2: 5.0 and now also 4.3 has firstboot setup enabled.

Similarly like in KVM scenario, when ignition/combustion is not provided it will ask for password, etc.

Can we move this whole ignition/combustion/cloud-init to a separate page we can reference from other deployments?

> ====

Author: Ok, but for the moment, I'll remove ignition/combustion here, because it is optional if I understand it correctly.  If needed, we could add hints about such an advanced configuration option later.

----
openssl passwd -6
----

The command creates a hash of the password you chose.
Use this hash as the value of the [literal]``password`` attribute.

Prepare the needed configuration files using the following commands:

----
touch network-config
touch meta-data
----

Create a file named [path]``user-data`` with the following content:

----
#cloud-config
chpasswd:
  expire: false
  users:
    - name: root
      password: $2a$10$qV298UV11u9lCFDjpHpCUe1cErBiVR.G3shukxs3.2PAO1xhJWs0K
----

Prepare [systemitem]``Cloud Init`` ISO file using the command:

----
mkisofs -rational-rock -joliet -o suma_cloudinit.iso -V cidata network-config meta-data user-data
----

Attach the created [path]``suma_cloudinit.iso`` file as a volume to the creating virtual machine.
This particular example is setting [systemitem]``root`` password to `linux`.
Substitute your password hash for the one in this example

[[quickstart.sect.vmware.settings]]
== {productname} Virtual Machine Settings - VMware

This sections describes VMware configurations, focusing on the creation of an extra virtual disk essential for the {productname} storage partition within VMware environments.

> .Procedure: Creating the VMware Virtual Machine
> 
> . Download {productname} Server [filename]``.vmdk`` file then transfer a copy to your VMware storage.
> 
> . Upload the prepared Ignition or Cloud Init disk file you created using the instructions above.
> 
> . Create and name a new virtual machine based on the Guest OS Family [systemitem]``Linux`` and Guest OS Version {sle} 15 (64-bit).
> 
> . In [guimenu]``Customize settings`` browse to the uploaded [filename]``.vmdk`` using [systemitem]``IDE controller 0`` storage device in the [systemitem]``Controller Location``.
> 
> . Add an additional [systemitem]``Hard Disk 2`` of 500 GB (or more).
> 
> . Configure RAM and number of CPUs (at least 16 GB RAM and 4 CPUs).
> 
> . Set the network adapter as required.
> 
> . Set the [systemitem]``CD/DVD Drive 1`` to use the uploaded configuration as a [systemitem]``Datastore ISO``.
>   Check the box next to btn:[Connect].
>   This drive must be present when you power on the machine initially.
> 
> . Power on the VM, and log in using credentials set by configuration disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Creating the VMware Virtual Machine

. Download {productname} Server [filename]``.vmdk`` file then transfer a copy to your VMware storage.

. Make a copy of uploaded [filename]``.vmdk`` using VMWare web interface. This will convert provided vmdk file to the format suitable for vSpere hypervisor.

. Create and name a new virtual machine based on the Guest OS Family [systemitem]``Linux`` and Guest OS Version {sle} 15 (64-bit).

. Add an additional [systemitem]``Hard Disk 2`` of 500 GB (or more).

. Configure RAM and number of CPUs (at least 16 GB RAM and 4 CPUs).

. Set the network adapter as required.

. Power on the VM, and follow firstboot dialogs.
```
